#Programming Model


Our study of algorithms is based upon implementing them as programs written in the Java programming language. We do so for several reasons:

* Our programs are concise(简洁的), elegant（优雅的）, and complete descriptions of algorithms.（程序是对算法的简洁的，优雅的，完整的描述）
* You can run the programs to study properties（属性） of the algorithms.（你可以通过运行程序去研究算法的性质）
* You can put the algorithms immediately to good use in applications.（你可以立刻把算法应用于应用程序）

##Primitive data types and expressions.（原始的数据类型和表达式） 
###data type
A data type is a set of values and a set of operations on those values. （数据类型就是一组数据和对这组数据能进行的操作的集合。）The following four primitive data types are the basis of the Java language:
	
* Integers, with arithmetic operations (int)(整形，及其算数运算符)
* Real numbers（实数）, again with arithmetic operations (double)
（浮点数及其算数运算符）
* Booleans, the set of values { true, false } with logical operations (boolean)布尔值，它的值 true，false及其逻辑操作
* Characters, the alphanumeric（文字、数字的） characters and symbols that you type (char)（字符型：你能够输入的英文字符和符号）

A Java program manipulates variables that are named with **identifiers**. Each variable is associated with a data type and stores one of the permissible（许可的，可允许的） data-type values. We use expressions to apply the operations associated with each type.（Java程序用标识符控制命名的变量。每个变量都有自己的数据类型并存储一个合法的值。我们用表达式来实现对各种数据类型的操作。）


The following table summarizes the set of values and most common operations on those values for Java's int, double, boolean, and char data types.（下面表格总结了一些值和在这些值上最常用的操作）


###Expressions. 

Typical expressions are infix（中缀）.（Java使用的是中缀表达式) When an expression contains more than one operator, the precedence order (优先级顺序)specifies the order in which they are applied: The operators * and / (and %) have higher precedence （优先级）than (are applied before) the + and - operators; among logical operators, ! is the highest precedence, followed by && and and then ||.（非、与、或） Generally, operators of the same precedence are left associative (applied left to right). You can use parentheses（圆括号） to override these rules.（一般来说，相同的优先级的运算符是左结合（运算顺序是从左到右）

###Type conversion. （类型转换）

Numbers are automatically promoted to a more inclusive type if no information is lost.（如果不会损失信息，数值会被自动提升为高级的数据类型。）For example, in the expression 1 + 2.5, the 1 is promoted to the double value 1.0 and the expression evaluates to the double value 3.5. A cast is a directive to convert a value of one type into a value of another type. For example (int) 3.7 is 3.（转换是指把一个类型的值强制转换成另一个类型的值。） Casting a double to an int truncates（缩短） toward zero.
###Comparisons（比较）

The following mixed-type operators compare two values of the same type and produce a boolean value下面的混合类型的操作符可以比较两个相同类型的值并产生一个布尔值：

* equal (==)
* not equal (!=)
* less than (<)
* less than or equal (<=)
* greater than (>)
* greater than or equal (>=)

Other primitive types. 

Java's int has a 32-bit representation; Java's double type has a 64-bit representation. Java has five additional primitive data types:

* 64-bit integers, with arithmetic operations (long)
* 16-bit integers, with arithmetic operations (short)
* 16-bit characters, with arithmetic operations (char)
* 8-bit integers, with arithmetic operations (byte)
* 32-bit single-precision real numbers, with arithmetic operations (float)

##Statements. 

A Java program is composed of statements, which define the computation by creating and manipulating variables, assigning data-type values to them, and controlling the flow of execution of such operations.

* Declarations create variables of a specified type and name them with identifiers. Java is a strongly typed language because the Java compiler checks for consistency. The scope of a variable is the part of the program where it is defined.
* Assignments associate a data-type value (defined by an expression) with a variable.
Initializing declarations combine a declaration with an assignment to initialize a variable at the same time it is declared.
* Implicit assignments. The following shortcuts are available when our purpose is to modify a variable's value relative to the current value:
	*	Increment/decrement operators: the code i++ is shorthand for i = i + 1. The code ++i is the same except that the expression value is taken after the increment/decrement, not before.
	* Other compound operators: the code i /= 2 is shorthand for i = i/2.
* Conditionals provide for a simple change in the flow of execution—execute the statements in one of two blocks, depending on a specified condition.
* Loops provide for a more profound change in the flow of execution—execute the statements in a block as long as a given condition is true. We refer to the statements in the block in a loop as the body of the loop.
* Break and continue. Java supports two additional statements for use within while loops:
	* The **break** statement, which immediately exits the loop
	* The **continue** statement, which immediately begins the next iteration of the loop
* For notation. Many loops follow this scheme: initialize an index variable to some value and then use a while loop to test a loop continuation condition involving the index variable, where the last statement in the while loop increments the index variable. You can express such loops compactly with Java's for notation.
* Single-statement blocks. If a block of statements in a conditional or a loop has only a single statement, the curly braces may be omitted.

The following table illustrates different kinds of Java statements.


##Arrays.

An array stores a sequence of values that are all of the same type. If we have N values, we can use the notation a[i] to refer to the ith value for any value of i from 0 to N-1.

* Creating and initializing an array. Making an array in a Java program involves three distinct steps:
	* Declare the array name and type.
	* Create the array.
	* Initialize the array values.
* Default array initialization. For economy in code, we often take advantage of Java's default array initialization convention and combine all three steps into a single statement. The default initial value is zero for numeric types and false for type boolean.
* Initializing declaration. We can specify the initialization values at compile time, by listing literal values between curly braces, separated by commas.
* Using an array. Once we create an array, its size is fixed. A program can refer to the length of an array a[] with the code a.length. Java does automatic bounds checking—if you access an array with an illegal index your program will terminate with an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.
* Aliasing. An array name refers to the whole array—if we assign one array name to another, then both refer to the same array, as illustrated in the following code fragment.
	
		int[] a = new int[N];
		...
		a[i] = 1234;
		...
		int[] b = a;	
		...
		b[i] = 5678;   // a[i] is now 5678.
This situation is known as aliasing and can lead to subtle bugs.

* Two-dimensional arrays. A two-dimensional array in Java is an array of one-dimensional arrays. A two-dimensional array may be ragged (its arrays may all be of differing lengths), but we most often work with (for appropriate parameters M and N) M-by-N two-dimensional arrays. To refer to the entry in row i and column j of a two-dimensional array a[][], we use the notation a[i][j].


##Static methods. 

Static methods are called functions in many programming languages, since they can behave like mathematical functions. Each static method is a sequence of statements that are executed, one after the other, when the static method is called.

* Defining a static method. A method encapsulates a computation that is defined as a sequence of statements. A method takes arguments (values of given data types) and computes a return value of some data type or causes a side effect. Each static method is composed of a signature and a body.
* Invoking a static method. A call on a static method is its name followed by expressions that specify argument values in parentheses, separated by commas. When a method is called, its argument variables are initialized with the values of the corresponding expressions in the call. A return statement terminates a static method, returning control to the caller. If the static method is to compute a value, that value must be specified in a return statement.
* Properties of methods. Java methods have the following features:
	* Arguments are passed by value. When calling a function, the argument value is fully evaluated and the resulting value is copied into argument variable. This is known as pass by value. Array (and other object) references are also passed by value: the method cannot change the reference, but it can change the entries in the array (or value of the object).	
	* Method names can be overloaded. Methods within a class can have the same name, provided they have different signatures. This features is known as overloading.
	* A method has a single return value but may have multiple return statements. A Java method can provide only one return value. Control goes back to the calling program as soon as the first return statement is reached.
	* A method can have side effects. A method may use the keyword void as its return type, to indicate that it has no return value and produces side effects (consume input, produce output, change entries in an array, or otherwise change the state of the system).
*	Recursion. A recursive method is a method that calls itself either directly or indirectly. There are three important rules of thumb in developing recursive programs:
	* The recursion has a base case.
	* Recursive calls must address subproblems that are smaller in some sense, so that recursive calls converge to the base case.
	* Recursive calls should not address subproblems that overlap.
* Basic programming model. A library of static methods is a set of static methods that are defined in a Java class. A basic model for Java programming is to develop a program that addresses a specific computational task by creating a library of static methods, one of which is named main().
* Modular programming. Libraries of static methods enable modular programming, where static methods in one library can call static methods defined in other libraries. This approach has many important advantages.
	* Work with modules of reasonable size
	* Share and reuse code without having to reimplement it
	* Substitute improved implementations
	* Develop appropriate abstract models for addressing programming problems
	* Localize debugging

*	Unit testing. A best practice in Java programming is to include a main() in every library of static methods that tests the methods in the library.
*	External libraries. We use static methods from four different kinds of libraries, each requiring (slightly) differing procedures for code reuse.
	* Standard system libraries in java.lang, including java.lang.Math, java.lang.Integer, and java.lang.Double.
	* Imported system libraries such as java.util.Arrays. An import statement at the beginning of the program is needed to use such libraries.
	* Other libraries in this book. To use such a program, download the source from the booksite into your working directory or follow these instructions for adding algs4.jar to your classpath.
	* The standard libraries that we have developed for use in this book. To use such a program, download the source from the booksite into your working directory or follow these instructions for adding stdlib.jar to your classpath.

To invoke a method from another library, we prepend the library name to the method name for each call: Math.sqrt(), Arrays.sort(), BinarySearch.rank(), and StdIn.readInt().
##APIs.
* Java libraries.
* Our standard libraries.
* Your own libraries.
##Strings.
* Concatenation.
* Conversion.
* Automatic conversion.
* Command-line arguments.